So if we're looking at the solution,
what I'm actually going to be doing is in this function segment plane.
This is very similar to what was being done from the PCL documentation.
So let's go ahead and look at this.
I create this seg object.
So this is a pcl SACSegmentation,
and we're using point T here because
our point processor is defining this template point T for us.
That way you can pass in any type of point,
whether it's point XYZ,
point XYZI, point XYZRGB,
and they'll still be able to handle it.
Then I'm defining this inliers, and this is,
again, this PCL type point indices.
This is what we'll be using later to actually
separate the pointCloud and break it up into pieces.
We have coefficients, and this is actually defining the coefficients of our model.
We look and we see that we're defining seg setModelType as a SACMODEL_PLANE.
So these coefficients will actually be defining what this plane is,
and you could use it if you want to actually render this plane in the PCL viewer.
The other parameters are,
we set optimized coefficients.
It's true, we want to try to get this best model and this is
actually optional that we can see from the documentation.
We're using RANSAC, and this is key here.
A RANSAC is like the secret sauce behind all this segmentation,
this Random Sample Consensus,
and later we'll actually be really diving in
and seeing how the RANSAC works under the hood.
Max iterations for the seg object.
We set max iterations and set distance threshold.
This is some key arguments,
and it's actually arguments that are being passed
directly into our function here for a segment plane.
We have these max iterations in distance threshold.
This is actually key to RANSAC itself.
So we'll be talking a little bit about this in a bit.
But after we go through and we set up all the hyperparameters for the seg object,
we're ready to give it some key information.
So we want it to do segmentation on
our Cloud which we're passing in to the function itself,
it's one of the key arguments.
Then what we want to generate is these inliers and coefficients.
We're not actually going to be using coefficients in this case,
it's nice that we have it.
You could use it to render the plane if you wanted,
but what we're really interested in is these inliers,
because we're going to use those to separate the pointCloud into two pieces.
Then we look at this.
So we're passing in inliers by reference here.
So we created it up here, we pass it in,
and this seg.segment is able to do all the processing on it.
We're dereferencing it here because it's a pointer,
and then inlier pointer is going to point to all this list of indices
that belong to the plane that we found by doing RANSAC.
If inliers indices.size is zero,
that means we actually didn't find any model that can fit this data.
So now, we're actually ready to move on and we have our inliers,
and we're actually ready to start separating our Cloud.